---
title: Serving modern or legacy bundles based on users' browser in Ember
date: March, 2019
description: A new take on differential browser bundling in EmberJS
tags: EmberJS
code: true
order: 37
featured: true
---

*This is an update on an earlier approach that
[I blogged about](/emberjs-shipping-different-bundles/).*

The marketshare of users with evergreen browsers is rising fast. Inspite of this,
we ship transpiled assets, often caused by the need to support legacy browsers like IE,
to everyone. This is because dropping browser support isn't an easy affair,
at least in enterprises. As a result, everyone, including those having the latest
versions of browsers are forced to consume a bigger and slower bundle.

While there are established ways in React(through Webpack), Meteor and Vue to achieve
differential bundling to serve assets based on the browser, there is currently
no official way to do it in Ember. There is a [pre-RFC](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/383)
that is being discussed upon and I felt like writing out about a strategy that
we have found to be feasible. 

This strategy tries to address engines as well. With the usual `type="module"`
and `nomodule` approach, you cannot handle engines as they rely on the asset manifest
provided by a `meta` tag with name as `app/config/asset-manifest`. There is no way to
toggle `meta` tags in the frontend as of now and until Ember Engines support the `storeConfigInMeta` option, you will either have to do something similar to this solution
or not do differential serving of engine assets. PS: There is a long-pending
[PR](https://github.com/ember-engines/ember-engines/pull/228) to implement the
`storeConfigInMeta` option in Ember Engines.

This solution requires you to serve different bundles by manipulating the HTML at runtime
in the server based on a cookie, or if possible, parsing the UA.

### **Steps**

* In your `index.html`, add `data-for="ember"` attribute to script tags
  that are generated by Ember. For example,

  <pre>
    &lt;script data-for="ember" src="{{rootURL}}assets/vendor.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
    &lt;script data-for="ember" src="{{rootURL}}assets/app.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
  </pre>
* In your application code, run a small script to set a cookie to determine
  if the user is currently using a modern or legacy browser.

  <pre>
  // Serve modern build if Promise and async/await are present
  let testCode = 'async() => { let p = new Promise(); await p(); }';
  try {
    // this needs to be a new Function/eval because otherwise,
    // you will get Syntax Errors in the code
    (new Function(testCode))();
    // Set a never-expiring cookie
  } catch(err) {
    // Set a cookie with a short validity(say a month)
    // If the user updates their browser, it will be reflected
    // once the cookie expires
  }
  </pre>

* In your `targets.js` file, use the `process.env.LEGACY` flag to toggle support
  for legacy browsers.

  <pre>
  'use strict';

  let browsers = [
&nbsp;&nbsp;'last 1 Chrome versions',
&nbsp;&nbsp;'last 1 Firefox versions',
&nbsp;&nbsp;'last 1 Safari versions'
  ];

  const isCI = !!process.env.CI;
  const isProduction = process.env.EMBER_ENV === 'production';
  const isLegacyBuild = !!process.env.LEGACY;

  if (isCI || isProduction || isLegacyBuild) {
  &nbsp;&nbsp;browsers = [
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'Chrome >= 42',
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'Firefox >= 39',
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'Edge >= 14',
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'Safari >= 10'
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'ie 11'
  &nbsp;&nbsp;];
  }

  module.exports = { browsers };
  </pre>

* Run parallel builds with 

  <pre>
    ember build --environment=production --output-path=modern &
    LEGACY=true ember build --environment=production --output-path=legacy
  </pre>
* Run the [`index.js`](https://github.com/astronomersiva/ember-differential-bundles/blob/master/index.js)
  provided in [this repo](https://github.com/astronomersiva/ember-differential-bundles).
  It will generate a `dist` folder with an `index.html` containing combined script tags and meta
  tags wrapped in `<MODERN>` and `<LEGACY>` tags. 
* In your server, detect the presence of the cookie that was previously set
  (or use the UA) and replace the tags accordingly.

  <pre>
    // if modern browser
    replaceAll('&lt;LEGACY&gt;.*&lt;/LEGACY&gt;', '');
    replaceAll('&lt;MODERN&gt;(.*)&lt;/MODERN&gt;', '$1');
    // if legacy browser
    replaceAll('&lt;MODERN&gt;.*&lt;/MODERN&gt;', '');
    replaceAll('&lt;LEGACY&gt;(.*)&lt;/LEGACY&gt;', '$1');
  </pre>

Feel free to share your ideas or comments on this approach on [GitHub](https://github.com/astronomersiva/ember-differential-bundles/)
or on Twitter.
